# React Front-end Template

Need to use node version =>18.

Runs in http://localhost:5173

### Scripts

The `Makefile` contains scripts to simplify common development tasks:

* `make dev`: Starts the development server using Vite.
* `make build`: Builds the project by compiling TypeScript and bundling assets.
* `make lint`: Runs ESLint to check for code quality issues.
* `make format`: Formats the codebase using Prettier and fixes linting issues.
* `make generate:types`: Generates TypeScript types from the OpenAPI schema.
* `make prepare`: Sets up Husky for managing Git hooks.
* `make preview`: Serves the production build locally for testing.
* `make translate`: Syncs the `translation.csv` under the root directory to the `translation.json` under `locales/raw`.

### Environment Variables

You need to create an `.env` file in your root directory.
You can find an example of the `.env` in `.env.example`.

To create a new environment variable:

1. add the environment variable to your `.env` file, with a `VITE_` prefix.
2. add under ImportMetaEnv interface in `env.d.ts`. This is for type safety and enabling autocompletion.
3. finally, export from `env.ts` with a desired name, conventionally without the `VITE` prefix.

After these steps, you will be able to use your environment variables by importing from `env.ts`.

### OpenAPI Type Generation

OpenAPI type generation uses the openapi-typescript package to convert an OpenAPI schema
into TypeScript types. The generate:types script fetches the schema
from http://localhost:8000/openapi.json and generates a schema.d.ts file.
This file contains TypeScript definitions for API requests and responses,
ensuring type safety. The generated file is auto-updated and should not be
manually edited.

Since schema.d.ts is autogenerated, do not touch it, the changes will
be overwritten as soon as generate:types script is run.

### Presentation Layer

The presentation layer is located under the `src/presentation` and is
responsible for the visual and interactive aspects of an application. Reusable
components are located under `src/presentation/components`. Pages are located
under `src/presentation/pages` and are consist of components.

Wrappers or providers are located under `src/presentation/view`.

**Do not** delete any essential components such as
rightbar, leftbar, header, footer. Just emptying its content should be enough.

### Hook Layer

Custom hooks are located under `src/hooks`. These hooks encapsulate logic and
stateful behaviour. Tanstack query is used for hooks.

### API Layer

HTTP methods and models are located under `src/api`. Models in `src/api/models` are
derived from `schema.d.ts`.

### Localization

`npm run translate`

This script, `npm run translate`,  
synchronizes translations from a CSV file into a JSON file used for localization.
It reads the provided CSV file, parses its content, and converts it into a structured JSON format.

The resulting JSON file is saved to `src/locales/raw/translation.json`. The file here
**won't be added to git**, it needs to be checked and changes should be added manually to
`src/locales/processed/translation.json`, by copying raw translation file or altering the
processed file.

### State Management

State management will be handled with Zustand.
